W 10673773 apicatalog updates for ga bsj (#189)
mulesoft/docs-exchange: modules/ROOT/pages/apicat-create-descriptor-file-manually.adoc

= Creating or Updating Descriptor Files Manually

> The 'create-descriptor` and `update-descriptor` commands identify the APIs to catalog and output the essential information needed to catalog them. If you want to add more descriptor information, the most efficient approach is to first create or update the descriptor file using the CLI, and then manually update the file with information that cannot be automatically. Use the following information about the descriptor YAML schema to decide what to add. 

Reviewer: am I missing something, why is this all in italics?

Author: Looks like the character before create-descriptor is wrong. I'll fix it.

> The 'create-descriptor` and `update-descriptor` commands identify the APIs to catalog and output the essential information needed to catalog them. If you want to add more descriptor information, the most efficient approach is to first create or update the descriptor file using the CLI, and then manually update the file with information that cannot be automatically. Use the following information about the descriptor YAML schema to decide what to add. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The 'create-descriptor` and `update-descriptor` commands identify the APIs to catalog and output the essential information needed to catalog them. If you want to add more descriptor information, create or update the descriptor file using the CLI, and then manually update the file with information that cannot be automatically. Use the following information about the descriptor YAML schema to decide what to add. 
```

Author: This phrase is in lieu of "MuleSoft recommends", which I recall our style prohibits. Not having some caveat is misleading, because it is possible to just create the file manually, and some people may want to do that.

Author: We are also not supposed to say "You can", but perhaps "you might want to..."?

If you already have `exchange.json` files associated with your API projects, you can reference the information in those files either in-line or by using an external reference. 

[[descriptor-yaml]]
== Descriptor YAML Schema

> Following are the YAML tags used to describe the APIs you want to catalog. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following  YAML tags to describe the APIs you want to catalog. 
```

== Catalog Descriptor Line

The descriptor file must start with the following:

---

 #%Catalog Descriptor 0.7

---

[[trigger-conditions]]
== triggerConditions

> The `triggerConditions` section of the YAML file enables you to optionally set conditions to determine when to publish the set of APIs described in the descriptor file. If you add this section to the descriptor file, the APIs are published only when the `api-catalog publish-asset` command is run with `--trigger-criteria` options with matching values for each of the trigger conditions. This enables you use the same `api-catalog publish-asset` command in your CI/CD scripts for each of your branches or environments and pass parameters to the command to control whether the APIs are published. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `triggerConditions` section of the YAML file enables you to optionally set conditions to determine when to publish the set of APIs described in the descriptor file. If you add this section to the descriptor file, the APIs are published only when you run the `api-catalog publish-asset` command with `--trigger-criteria` options with matching values for each of the trigger conditions. This enables you to use the same `api-catalog publish-asset` command in your CI/CD scripts for each of your branches or environments and pass parameters to the command to control whether the APIs are published. 
```

Author: This may be and almost certainly will be run as part of an automated script, so again I prefer to use the passive voice

> You can set trigger conditions for specific APIs or for all APIs described in the descriptor file (global). If both types of conditions are used, the specific override the global. 

Reviewer: "If both types of conditions are used, the specific override the global."

confirm this makes sense

> Following is an example `triggerConditions` section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example `triggerConditions` section:
```

Author: This seems to contradict an earlier comment where you had me add "the following". What is our rule on whether to use "the following" or not?

---
 triggerConditions: 
   branches:
     - main
     - release/(.*)
   tags:
     - support
     - release/(.*)

---

The preceding example enables a run of the `api-catalog publish-asset` command to publish the APIs described by the descriptor file only if the command has all of the following `--trigger-criteria` option values: 

* `branches` are `main` or have `release/` in the text
* `tags` are `support` or have `release/` in the text

> If the `triggerConditions` section is included in the descriptor file, no APIS are published by the `api-catalog publish-asset` command unless all of the trigger conditions are matched by `--trigger-criteria` option values. For an example publish command using the `--trigger-criteria` option, see 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you include the `triggerConditions` section  in the descriptor file, the `api-catalog publish-asset` command does not publish any APIS unless all of the trigger conditions are matched by `--trigger-criteria` option values. For an example publish command using the `--trigger-criteria` option, see 
```

xref:apicat-publish-using-api-catalog-cli.adoc#example-trigger[Trigger the Publish Using Conditions].

[[version-strategy-conditions]]
== versionStrategyConditions

The `versionStrategyConditions` section of the YAML file enables you to optionally set conditions to determine the version strategy of the set of APIs described in the descriptor file. If you add this section to the descriptor file, the version strategy of the APIs are set when the `api-catalog publish-asset` command is run with `--version-strategy-criteria` option. This enables you use the same `api-catalog publish-asset` command in your CI/CD scripts for each of your branches or environments and pass parameters to the command to control the version strategy of the APIs that are published. 

You can set version strategy conditions for specific APIs or for all APIs described in the descriptor file (global). If both types of conditions are used, the specific override the global. 

> Following is an example `versionStrategyConditions` section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example `versionStrategyConditions` section:
```

----
    versionStrategyConditions:
      minorIncrease:
        branches:
          - main
        tags:
          - support
      snapshot:
        branches:
          - develop
----

== contact

The `contact` section of the schema includes the name and email ID for main contact for the autocataloging. If none are included, these default to `unknown`.   

== projects 

The `projects` section of the schema lists the API projects to be cataloged along with the details needed to catalog them. 

spec:: The location of the specification file that describes the API. 

assetId:: Specifies the ID of the asset to be published in Exchange. 

documentation:: A list of key and value pairs that specify the name of the documentation page and file location for the API.
These pairs define the order of the documentation pages in Anypoint Platform.
+
Format: <Name of the documentation page>:<File Location>
+

> If this option is not specified, no documentation pages are imported. 

Reviewer: Can each of these with similar construction be rewritten to something like:

If you don't specify this option, Exchange (or whatever) does not import documentation pages

categories:: A list of key and value pairs that specify the category name and value. These pairs are validated against the categories that exist in the Anypoint Platform organization.
+
Format: <Category Name>: <Value(s)>
+
If this option is not specified, no categories are added.

customFields:: A list of key and value pairs that specify the field and value. These pairs are validated against the custom fields and field types that exist in the Anypoint Platform organization.
+
Format: <Field>: <Value(s)> 
+
If this option is not specified, no custom fields are added.

tags:: A list of free text strings. 
+
If this option is not specified, no tags are added.
+
version:: The version of the API.
+
If this is not specified, the version is set by the version strategy.
+
versionStrategy::
+
You can set the versioning strategy for the assets at the global or API project level. If a version strategy is not specified, the patch version is incremented by one. 
+

> Following are the possible values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following values are possible:
```

+

> * *majorIncrease:* Searches for the latest version that matches the `version` field in the descriptor and increases the major version. If the asset is in the development lifecycle state, the version is increased and the asset stays in development. If the asset is a stable version, a new stable version is published.

Reviewer: I feel like it might be overboard at this point, but instead of "a new stable version is published" can it be "Exchange (or whatever) publishes a new stable version"

this would be throughout this section. you decide
